Announcing GitHub Actions for Octopus Deploy (#453)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2021-06/github-actions-for-octopus-deploy/index.md

---
title: Announcing GitHub Actions for Octopus Deploy
description: GitHub Actions for Octopus Deploy is now available, enabling you to integrate your GitHub builds with deploys in Octopus. Learn how to get started.
author: rob.pearson@octopus.com
visibility: public
published: 2021-06-02-1400
metaImage: github-actions-integration.png
bannerImage: github-actions-integration.png
tags:
 - DevOps
 - GitHub Actions
---

![GitHub actions integrating with Octopus Deploy build](github-actions-integration.png)

> We're proud to have shipped our first official GitHub Actions for Octopus Deploy. These initial actions cover the core integration scenarios so you can connect your GitHub builds with your deploys and runbook runs in Octopus: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've shipped our first official GitHub Actions for Octopus Deploy. These initial actions cover the core integration scenarios so you can connect your GitHub builds with your deploys and runbook runs in Octopus: 
```

- [Execute a runbook](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/run-runbook-in-octopus-deploy) in Octopus Deploy.
- [Install](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/install-octopus-cli) the Octopus CLI.

We plan to add additional GitHub Actions later in the year. 

In this blog post, I introduce GitHub Actions and demonstrate how you can get started with them to push build artifacts to Octopus, create a release, and deploy it to a development environment.

## What is GitHub Actions? 

[GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) is a popular new platform to automate software development workflows like CI/CD build around the GitHub ecosystem. 

You define your workflow using a YAML configuration file and store it within your Git repository. You can compose your automation with resusable building blocks called actions. Workflows are executed in containers for a repeatable and reliable process.

Below is an example GitHub Action job workflow to build a simple .NET web application. GitHub provides examples for most programming languages and frameworks.

```yaml
name: Build

on:
  push:

>     branches: [ master ]

Reviewer: Should that be main instead of master?

jobs:
  build:

    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - name: Setup .NET
      uses: actions/setup-dotnet@v1
      with:
        dotnet-version: 5.0.x
    - name: Restore dependencies
      run: dotnet restore
    - name: Build
      run: dotnet publish -o build 
    - name: Test
      run: dotnet test --no-build --verbosity normal
```

> The workflow is named **build** and it triggers a single job whenever changes are pushed to the parent Git repository on the `master` branch. The steps prepare and execute a continuous integration build including:

Reviewer: Should that be main instead of master?

- Restoring dependencies
- Executing the build
- Running all tests

I recommend reading [GitHub's docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions) to learn more. This blog post assumes you are familiar with the basics of building a workflow with GitHub actions.

## Getting started with GitHub Actions for Octopus Deploy

To illustrate how to use the new GitHub Actions for Octopus, we'll update the example build script above to install the Octopus CLI, package and push our build artifact to Octopus and then create a release and deploy it to our dev environment.

The complete workflow file looks like the following and you can also view it in this [GitHub Samples repository](https://github.com/OctopusSamples/RandomQuotes/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml).

```yaml
name: Build

on:
  push:

>     branches: [ master ]

Reviewer: Should that be main instead of master?

Reviewer 2: The RandomQuotes repo uses master, so I think we should keep it as master.

:::hint
NOTE: This is building a Microsoft .NET 5 web application but it could easily be a Spring (Java) web app or NodeJS express service etc. The important parts are the usage of the GitHub Actions for Octopus that make it easy to integrate.
:::

### Installing the Octopus CLI

```yaml
    - name: Install Octopus CLI 🐙
      uses: OctopusDeploy/install-octopus-cli-action@v1.1.6
      with:
        version: latest
```

To integrate with an Octopus Server, first install the Octopus CLI. This is a pre-requisite to use any of the other steps as it bootstraps the job runner with the appropriate dependencies to install the Octopus CLI.

### Pushing build artifacts to Octopus

```yaml
    - name: Pack
      run: octo pack --id="RandomQuotes" --format="zip" --version="1.0.${{github.run_number}}" --basePath="/home/runner/work/RandomQuotes/RandomQuotes/build/" --verbose
    - name: Push a package to Octopus Deploy 🐙
      uses: OctopusDeploy/push-package-action@v1.0.1
      with:
        api_key: ${{ secrets.OCTOPUS_APIKEY }}
        server: ${{ secrets.OCTOPUS_SERVER }}
        packages: "RandomQuotes.1.0.${{github.run_number}}.zip"
```

> The next step is packaging your build artifacts and pushing them to a package repository. In this case, we're pushing to the Octopus build-in package repository which is a popular option for teams. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next step is packaging your build artifacts and pushing them to a package repository. In this case, we're pushing to the Octopus built-in package repository which is a popular option for teams. 
```

> The next step is packaging your build artifacts and pushing them to a package repository. In this case, we're pushing to the Octopus build-in package repository which is a popular option for teams. 

Reviewer: Should that say built-in? (Rather than build-in.)

Reviewer 2: Yes
